Now the first two steps to setup your very own Web site is firstly to get web hosting and then to register
your domain name.
Now Web hosting would really allow you to store your Web site online so that people can access it all
over the world on your domain name will be for example your company name dot com and that's your web
address.
So people really know where to access your site.
So there are plenty of places where you can complete these two steps.
But I would recommend Blue House dot com.
They are the company that I use personally.
They've never let me down.
And also I've organized a pretty cool discount for you guys if you want to check it out.
The link is in the description you get a free domain which will save you about 15 dollars and then you
can also get a 60 percent discount on your web hosting.
So in the first year you'll probably save seventy five dollars if you click the link in the description
but you can feel free to use any web hosts you want and the steps that are going to walk through in
this video are pretty much going to be exactly the same.
So either click on the link and you're going to come to a page like this and then you can click get
started.
Now and then we need to select our web hosting plan.
And there are a couple of options here but I think for most people you're just going to going to select
the basic plan that's two ninety five per month with the discount and that means you can host one Web
site online.
Now the only other option you might be considering is the plus plan.
So for a little bit more you can have unlimited Web sites and host them.
And why would you want to do that.
Well maybe if you're thinking of setting up a couple of Web sites or maybe even you're creating Web
sites and managing them for people then this is a very affordable plan to select.
But I think for most people you're just going to want to be selecting the basic plan.
And I do want to explain a little bit further now.
Why do you even need web hosting in the first place if you've never set up a Web site.
It's a bit of an alien concept because we just post stuff to Facebook YouTube for free.
And actually those companies absorb that hosting costs themselves.
They have to pay for data centers with servers on them.
And so unfortunately they won't pay for it when it's our own site.
And that's why we have to pay for it.
Essentially we're buying here a little bit of space on a server in a database somewhere.
And that's why we pay when we set up our own Web site.
And we never pay when we upload TGP etc because they really cover the costs.
So I think I've had people find that explanation helpful.
And so now that you understand why you need hosting I think you know the plan to select go ahead and
select this basic plan here.
Now here comes the exciting part.
We need to get our free domain.
And so what you really want to do is think about your business name and type it in here.
So in terms of picking a domain name I would try and keep it as short as possible less than 20 characters.
You want it to be something that rolls off the tongue easily.
So if you set it in conversation they would remember that that was your web address and it's more important
to have a domain name that is brand able and memorable rather than a domain name that has loads of your
keywords in them.
Because actually having keywords in your domain name is not going to really help you rank in the search
engines.
It might give a clue about what your business is about to try and include them if you can but don't
have like 10 keywords stuck together.
People are never going to remember that.
They're never going to type that in.
So you wanted to keep it as short as possible.
So if you're creating a new domain you can type it in here or you also have this option if you've bought
a domain previously to go ahead and sign up.
So I'm going to just put in WP So WordPress setup demo and then we get to select our domain ending.
You can see now it's on Dakota UK and I would try and get the dot com if you can if it's available.
That's what people remember the most it seems like the most trustworthy.
They don't have to think about what's the domain ending.
And but there are other options out there you can see them here at dot org is very popular for charities.
Darko is becoming more popular as well for startups and new companies.
But for now I'm just going to buy the dot com and then click next.
So now we need to go and fill out our account information.
So I'm just going to take a couple of moments to fill this all out.
So once you fill out your account information then you just want to review your package information
and you can see by default here there will probably be a couple of options selected by default.
So I'll just explain what each of these options are and then you can decide whether you want to leave
them enabled or not.
So the first one is main privacy protection.
So what is this about.
Well the reason you might want to keep this is because there is a site called who is dot com and I'll
just put in an example site here.
Growed stars dot com.
And on this site people can find as the phone number and the email that you would have put in when you
registered your domain name.
Now a lot of people though want that information public.
You might get a couple of random emails or maybe even a phone call.
So some people say like this domain is privacy protection options so they don't get that.
Now personally I don't mind if I get a random e-mail so I can save myself really a dollar just by doing
that.
Now site back a pro this is an option maybe you should leave enabled.
Essentially what this will do will backup your sites especially if you've a big site with a lot of content
on it and you may be changing content you may be editing the code something like that something breaks
on you need to get your backup version so that you can get your site back up and running for this demo
site that setting up I'm not going to select that but I think that is a good option for a lot of people.
Now site security again there's more information there.
Am I going to show you a couple of things to do to secure your site so you don't need that option.
Then once you're ready all you need to do is type in your payment information which I'm going to take
a minute to do now.
OK.
I've typed in my payment information there and then you just want to select.
I've read the terms and agreements and click submit.
OK so great.
Our purchase was successful and a confirmation has been sent to our email address.
Before we can log in as it says here we need to create a password next step then is just go ahead and
insert a secure password and it'll give you an indication of how strong that is.
So I would recommend you try and make that strong so your side stays secure and then you can just say
I've read the terms and agreements and click Next so they'll give us the option here to pick a theme
what we'll actually do is just skip this step.
Okay we're all done.
Now I am getting a notification here that they will update my domain automatically as soon as it's ready.
So that's good to know.
You might see a similar notification and then we can just go ahead and click start building.
So here we are now in the back end of our brand new Web site.
And if you want to take a look at what it looks like just come up to welcome come up to visit site and
we can see that this is what our site is really looking like now.
It's pretty basic so far not a lot of content on it but we're gonna be making this really look incredible
and adding content to it.
But that really wraps up the first steps to setting up your site.
Registering domain name getting hosting and installing WordPress.